Title: A New Kind of Survivalism
Date: 2012-05-25 19:04
Tags: firearms, gardening

We're all familiar with the survivalist stereotype -- a [bearded guy
with an underground
bunker](http://ednixon.smugmug.com/Other/Survivalist-Bunker-near-Big/13577863_x25nxr/990142817_4FkiU#!i=990213148&k=xRNPE),
with a stockpile of guns and thousands of rounds of ammunition, and
enough [canned and dehydrated
food](http://ednixon.smugmug.com/Other/Survivalist-Bunker-near-Big/13577863_x25nxr/990142817_4FkiU#!i=990152746&k=bH7N6)
to last through the apocalypse. [This does not appeal to
me.](http://ktar.com/509/1534325/Negotiators-try-to-lure-Wash-fugitive-from-bunker)

I'm interested in a different kind of survivalism -- one where instead
of endless preparations for a doomsday that may never come, I make
changes to my life that improve my quality of life right now, and have
the side effect of making my family more adaptable to changes of various
kinds. For instance, planting a vegetable garden and raising chickens or pigs
instead of getting crates of unappetizing 
[MREs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MRE) from military surplus stores.

I've seen this described as ["Resilient
Communities"](http://learningforsustainability.net/susdev/resilience.php),
a term coined by [John
Robb](http://globalguerrillas.typepad.com/about.html), who described
them as able ["to enjoy the fruits of globalization without being
completely vulnerable to its
excesses."](http://globalguerrillas.typepad.com/globalguerrillas/2008/01/the-resilient-c.html)

This is mostly theory and planning for me now, although I'm going to be
implementing parts of this sooner than others. My long-term plans
include moving my family outside Los Angeles, but my current situation
precludes that. I'm taking care of two aging parents, don't want to
leave them in Los Angeles, and don't think it's feasible at the moment
to take them with me.

However, there's parts of this that I can implement right now, and some
that I've already implemented. I've switched to bottled-water delivery,
and am stockpiling a supply of water by having slightly more water
delivered each month than we can consume in a month. (And now our
drinking water tastes much better.)

I'd like to plant my first vegetable garden this summer, and I'm
considering (like half the hipsters in the country, apparently) raising
chickens for eggs and meat.

I'm also building up my skills. I have taken a shotgun and pistol course
here (with the [truly excellent
ITTS](http://www.internationaltactical.com/index.html), highly, highly
recommended) and plan to take more. This fits with my general
philosophy, because I enjoyed taking the classes, and I enjoy going to
the range to practice. I'd like to learn auto repair and machining, both
of which I would enjoy doing more of.

Ultimately I'd like to build a house in a beautiful, quiet place with a
good year-round water supply, and implement there the lessons I've
learned here in Los Angeles. I'll keep writing as I flesh out my plans,
and as I learn more, build up my skills, and try new things.
