Title: A River Runs Through It...
Date: 2008-01-05 01:43
Tags: flood, home maintenance, Topanga

My mountain cabin / hippie shack is built into the side of Topanga
Canyon. It's TOTALLY not-up-to-code. Tonight, in the middle of the
biggest rainstorm of the year, water started pouring from the WALL on
the bottom floor that's built into the hill. It washed about a pound of
silt onto my floor, and got to a depth of about two inches in places.

I got my landlord (he lives next door) and we went out to investigate.
There was a big pool caused by debris against one side of the house,
apparently that was seeping down next to the boulder and somehow into
the house. When we cleared the debries and caused the pool to drain, the
water stopped pouring through the THREE INCH HOLE in my wall. (Pictures
to follow.)

Now, about that boulder. There's a BIG rock, and apparently the hippies
who built my house couldn't move or blast it, so they just built the
house around it. The boulder sticks into my house and is just plastered
over. (There's actually steps in it leading up to a little reading
nook.) And as far as I can tell, the boulder is the only thing holding
the house up. (I asked my landlord if the house was built on a slab
foundation. His response? "Are you fucking kidding? It's sticks on dirt.
A couple of cinderblocks. And believe it or not, the place is legal.
It's old enough that it's registered as a real residence!")

He brought over a bunch of towels, and we swept up most of the mud on
the bottom floor -- thus far, my second floor has been blissfully immune
to water problems. (Other than a few leaks, which just sprang up.)

Oh, one more thing. When I put my ear down near the boulder, I hear the
sound of rushing water. And against the hillside wall of my house.
Rushing water.

If I've struck some kind of underground stream, can I open a bottling
plant? Want to drink Topanga Water?

