Title: The Elasticity of Memory, Part I
Date: 2010-07-19 12:10
Tags: family

My father says my mother hallucinates, but I don't think "hallucinate"
is the right word. It's not as if you're with her and she sees people
who aren't there. Instead, later she remembers things -- sometimes very
vividly -- that never happened. At first these were visits from people
she knew -- her father, her sister, old friends. It was easy for us to
tell these things weren't real -- her father has been dead 20 years, her
sister hasn't left Denmark in 30 years, and her friends weren't visiting
either.

She's come to accept that these things aren't happening -- though she
had to call her sister in Denmark before she believed us that Greta
wasn't here. Now she remembers things that are harder for her to verify
on her own, so she asks us about them. Today she called and asked if I'd
had a bunch of friends over last night. I don't live with my parents,
and hadn't been there last night, but I did have lunch there yesterday,
and their next-door neighbors Daniel and Tatiana came over with their
daughter Priscilla to visit for a while. Once I was sure Mom wasn't
talking about Priscilla and her parents, I knew this was another dream
memory, and told Mom so.

"Well, your Dad says the same thing, so I guess they weren't really
here." Later I asked her about the memories. "Today we talked about
Daniel and Tatiana and Priscilla coming over yesterday, which did
happen, and about a bunch of my friends coming over last night, which
didn't happen. Is there any difference between those two memories for
you?"

"Oh, yes! They're very different. When your friends come over it's like
a Swedish movie. It's just dozens of young girls flitting around in
white dresses. They're very nice, and don't cause any problems. They're
just always moving around the house. I just assumed they were your
friends."

In some ways my mother is in the hardest part of dementia. She's losing
her reality, her ability to tell fantasy and imagination from reality,
and she's still alert and thoughtful enough to know it's happening. At
first this hit her very, very hard. The hardest hit was also one of the
most mundane. We were in the doctor's office, and she needed to give a
urine sample, and she had gone to the restroom before we left the house,
so the medical assistant gave her a dixie cup full of water. My mom gave
the empty cup back, and somehow that got transmuted in her mind to her
giving a urine sample. And no matter how much my father and I insisted
that she hadn't given a sample, she stood firm. It wasn't until all the
nurses in the office and the doctor confirmed that she hadn't given a
sample that she realized she was wrong. This simple error shook her much
more than thinking her dead father was visiting. She could no longer
trust the evidence of her eyes and ears and mind.

All of this raises thorny questions about the nature of reality that I
don't feel qualified to talk about. Our eyes and ears and other senses
are the instruments we use to model the world in our own heads. But our
brain is an instrument as well, and when it's not working correctly it
doesn't matter how sharp your vision or how sensitive your hearing.
We're all using imperfect instruments to perceive our world.

All of this completely terrifies me. Not only because of the obvious
impact on my mother, but because I've become aware of my attachment to
my own rationality and ability to perceive the world accurately. I'm a
student of Buddhism, and I've found the knowledge that all things end to
be a comfort as we approach the end of my parents' lives. I've come to
accept the inevitability of death -- but this is rubbing my face in the
liklihood of my own loss of awareness before death -- and it will take
much more meditation before I come to accept that.

My mother grew up in a small farming village in Jutland, in Denmark.
It's the kind of place that people in the capital, Copenhagen, make fun
of, filled with people the city-dwellers think of as hicks with funny
accents. She went from there to an elite boarding school near the
capital, and eventually from there to America, where she met my father,
earned a Master's Degree, taught in high schools and colleges, and had a
son.

She's always been proud of her academic ability, a voracious reader of
newspapers and news magazines and books. Lately she's come to terms, at
least a lot more, with the fact that she can't trust her own brain or
her own perceptions. It no longer seems to shake her so deeply when she
finds her memory at odds with reality. She even jokes about it now --
when I offered to take her to the Library she said there's no need.

"The best part of Alzheimer's is that you can read the same book over
and over again and not mind." She sometimes gets frustrated -- more so
on good days than bad -- when she asks me five times in ten minutes if
I'd like steak for dinner (I'm a vegetarian) and realizes how many times
she's asked the question. On bad days, though, she doesn't realize --
just asks again and again -- and this actually seems easier for her.
Alzheimer's is a disease that may actually get easier for her as it
progresses.

I'm very thankful for one thing -- that this doesn't seem to be changing
the basic nature of my mother. She's losing her reality, but she's not
losing herself. She actually seems to be getting sweeter, more gentle,
more loving, and more able to express that love as the disease
progresses. Even her fantastical memories are of people she loves coming
to visit, or of friendly young people filling the house. At least for
now, she's still the mother I love and the mother who loves me. And I'm
going to treasure that for as long as it lasts.

