Title: Linux Is Good, redux
Date: 2003-12-01 21:11
Tags: linux

Learning about Linux really is a constant series of cool discoveries.
I've just discovered Kernel Traffic (KT). KT is a condensed version of
several mailing lists covering Linux development. There are more then
3000 messages a week; reading all the traffic on all the lists would be
a full-time job.

KT is interesting because you get to see the arguments and discussions
and inside jokes of the people actually building the operating system.
It's a radically deeper insight into the workings of the operating
system than I've ever seen; deeper even than the source code. (I sound
impressive, but the truth is I'm not good enough to read the source
code, yet.) KT gives you the *why* things are.

For instance, this issue of KT covers Kernel Modules about half-way
down. Kernel modules are pieces of software which add support for
something to LInux. A kernel module might provide support for a new USB
card, for instance. Â Right now they require a fairly high level of skill
to install. (Legions of UNIX gurus are rolling their eyes at "fairly
high level," but for the average non-UNIX geek, it's a true statement.)
Linus Torvalds, the creator of the Linux operating system, and several
other programmers argued back and forth about how best to make this
easier, going down a blind alley before reaching a consensus. Nobody is
required to follow this consensus, but undoubtedly more and more makers
of Linux distributions like Red Hat or Mandrake will join the consensus
(if it actually proves to be easier) and Linux will end up easier for
people like me to use.

Depending on your comfort level with linux, some of KT may not be
understandable. A lot of it looked like gibberish to me -- especially
the first third, most of which seemed as understandable as the secret
language of Chinese moles. Skip through those parts. There's enough
human argument and agreement and fighting and praising to be interesting
to anyone. OK, not anyone. But it's much more interesting than you'd
expect it to be. (Maybe that should be their slogan? "Kernel Traffic:
More Interesting Than You'd Expect It To Be.")

