Title: Nobody ever got fired for buying Microsoft?
Date: 2003-10-10 15:54
Tags: data security

[Valve Software](http://www.valvesoftware.com/) had the source code for
their newest game, Half Life 2,
[stolen](http://www.wired.com/news/games/0,2101,60701,00.html) in a
security breach last month. [The owner
says](http://www.halflife2.net/forums/showthread.php?s=c0c30e01df3715c2d4459b40273d93c4&threadid=10692)
a keystroke-logger was customized specifically to hack Valve, and was
installed on their computers through a hole in Microsoft Outlook. Ouch.
Game companies are notoriously secretive and security conscious, and the
fact that these guys got nailed shows that no one running a Microsoft
shop is really safe.

One could argue that no operating system can ever be 100% secure, and
that a determined hacker can get in almost anywhere. That argument is
true. But the relentless drum beat of Microsoft security failures makes
it seem that you don't need to be particularly determined to hack into a
Microsoft box.

A nimble systems administrator who keeps on top of patches and
constantly studies and updates his or her knowledge can keep Microsoft
systems reasonably secure. But running Microsoft means you can never let
your guard down. You must properly install and maintain a firewall, and
provide up-to-date virus protection on all computers and on e-mail. You
must train users in proper security, and do regular scans of computers,
both for viruses and for spyware and adware. And you must keep your
fingers crossed that you won't end up in the crosshairs of a determined,
talented hacker. If you're a small business, the odds of that happening
are almost nil. But if you're a bank, or a big online merchant, or a
game company, you're much more likely to be targeted, as Valve found
out. And if you're a home user on a DSL or cable modem connection,
without the interest or time to learn the basics of computer security,
you're in a world of hurt.

From the tone of the stories on this I've read, and their overuse of the
word "stolen," it appeared at first that the hacker had downloaded the
game's source code and then deleted it from the server. Although Valve
might not admit this if it happened, I would doubt that this is the
case. Valve would undoubtedly be performing daily backups; for the
hacker to remove or damage these as well as the copies of the source
code on their servers would require that the hacker had been deep in the
system for a long, long time. The code has actually been "copied without
permission," not "stolen." (This is a distinction that would probably
have greatly reduced the sentences of several computer hackers.)

The effect of the hacker's work on Valve as a company is unclear.
Depending on who you listen to, it's a crippling blow or has no effect
whatsoever. But one thing is clear: high-end security consulting
companies will continue having good years as more and more companies
realize the importance and difficulty of good security.
