Title: Two Not-Highly-Recommended Books
Date: 2008-08-15 11:50
Tags: book review

This should, of course, be subtitled "Books Not To Read If You Are Me."
These aren't necessarily bad books (in fact, both of them are good
books) but they weren't that useful to me or to people in exactly my
situation. Take this with as much salt as you feel appropriate,
depending on what you're working on.

The first is "[Getting Real: The smarter, faster, easier way to build a
successful web
application](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0578012812/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0578012812&linkCode=as2&tag=schoforg-20)"
by 37signals. If you're doing web-application development, I'd say this
is a book you should read. I'm not doing that, and thus, didn't see a
whole lot of value here. I'm making a mental note to reread this if I
ever do get into a web development project, and it did make me think
about ways I could make our current development procedures more agile --
but if the question is "Was this worth the time it took for me to read
it?" then the answer is "No."

The second is "[The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering,
Anniversary Edition (2nd
Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0201835959/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0201835959&linkCode=as2&tag=schoforg-20)"
by Frederick Brooks. It came highly-recommended in every software
management book I've read, so I figured it had to be on my list. While
there is much still of value in this book, easily a third to a half
seems completely out-of-date -- advice on whether to use printed manuals
or microfiche that seems as applicable as a discussion of which tools
are best for shoeing horses.

While the concepts discussed in TMMM were clearly revolutionary, I'm not
sure it makes the first cut for a software management reading list
today. If you're studying the history of project management, then you
must read this book. It's a classic in the field. If you're just trying
to be a better manager today, most of the ideas it contains are captured
better in other, more current books, particularly
"[Peopleware](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0932633439/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0932633439&linkCode=as2&tag=schoforg-20),"
"[Joel on
Software](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1590593898/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1590593898&linkCode=as2&tag=schoforg-20),"
and "[Managing
Humans](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1430243147/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1430243147&linkCode=as2&tag=schoforg-20)."

