Title: WordPress First Impressions
Date: 2005-03-12 08:08
Tags: obsolete

First of all, I have to say that WordPress rocks. I've gone through just
about every blogging / CMS / Wiki / whatever-based tool out there, and
WordPress is absolutely the best I've seen.

I do have some reservations, of course. Future-dated posts should show
up on the Dashboard in chronological order by when they will appear
rather than by when they were written. Also, entries on the Dashboard
appear to be in a different time-zone than the rest of the site.
(Visitors can't see the Dashboard -- but it's the first thing you see on
the admin side of things.)

WordPress should come with a spell-checker by default. That's an
obviously basic feature. (I've so far been unable to get the first
plug-in spell-checker I tried working. As you can porbably allready
tell.)

The default template had an error in it (the links to the RSS feeds are
done like this: "feed://http://example.com") Clicking the links didn't
work because the browser didn't know how to handle the "feed" protocol.
As far as I know there's no such thing -- anybody want to enlighten me
if I'm wrong?

I have to emphasize, though, what a really strong product WordPress is.
It is conducive to writing. That doesn't sound like much, but it's a key
shortcoming of other products I've tried -- the annoying little things
mount up until you're more frustrated with the interface than you are
excited about what you're writing. All the buttons and options in
WordPress work exactly the way you think they should. Buttons do what
they say they're going to do.

If you're interested in a painless web publishing solution, you can't go
wrong with WordPress.

**Update March 19, 2005:** Turns out that the Post management ability is
much more advanced than the Page management. For instance, you can't
future-date Pages like you can Posts. You can't have Draft Pages either.
It's a real drag sometimes.
