Title: Increasing Your Saving Rate
Date: 2012-12-30 10:15
Tags: financial competence step 2

The most important part of investment is increasing your saving rate.
Someone who saves 30% of his income but invests with mediocre returns
will be far better off than someone who invests 10% of his income
brilliantly.

The chief gurus of the "Save More Money" movement are Jacob of [Early
Retirement Extreme](http://earlyretirementextreme.com/about) and Mr.
Money Mustache (really!) of
[mrmoneymustache.com](http://www.mrmoneymustache.com/).

While I haven't yet read all of Early Retirement Extreme (his book is on
request for me at the library) I have read most of Mr. Money Mustache's
(MMM) site.

I've said that getting married was the impetus that made me start
working towards financial competence, but I owe a debt to MMM as well. I
think getting married planted the seed of desire towards being
financially competent, but MMM gave me the kick in the pants I needed,
as well as the roadmap I've used to build [my own plan towards financial
competence](/2012/12/29/a-financial-roadmap "A Roadmap to Financial Competence").
I can't recommend the MMM site highly enough -- it's an excellent
starting point towards financial competence.

What I learned there is that the single most important way to secure
your financial future is to spend significantly less than you make. This
helps you in two ways:

1.  Your nest egg grows more
    quickly
2.  Once you retire, if you keep your expenses low, you can live on a
    smaller nest egg.

We've got a ways to go here in the Schofield household to reach our
goal. Currently, we want to save 30% of our income each month and apply
it to either debt or investment. In November we were at about 10% and in
December, due to Christmas presents, we're at about 0%. I'm not proud of
that. (You can read about response to that -- [A No Gift Christmas next
year](/2012/12/30/a-no-gift-christmas "A No-Gift Christmas").)

So our goal is to decrease our spending each month by 10% until we're
saving 30% of our gross income. (I'd prefer to be saving 50%, but I want
to set an achievable first goal.) I'll keep you posted as to how we do.
Tell me in the comments how much you're saving, and what savings goal
you're striving for.

