Title: Tracking Income and Expenses
Date: 2012-12-30 10:00
Tags: financial competence step 1

This is step one in the plan for [Financial
Competence](/2012/12/29/a-financial-roadmap "A Roadmap to Financial Competence")
because all else depends on it. You can not be financially competent if
you don't know how much you're earning, how much you're spending, and
what you're spending it on.

Some financial advisers suggest you create a budget and try to stay
within it -- and I think that's good advice. But the first step in
following a budget is knowing what you're spending -- and often, that's
enough. We currently don't have a firm budget, but every month, we look
at each category of expenses and ask ourselves a few questions:

-   Does this
    category seem out of proportion? Should we try to reduce it next
    month?
-   Are there any expenses in this category that we can eliminate
    entirely? Any we can reduce? (For instance, we recently turned off
    our cable TV entirely. Now we just pay our cable company for
    Internet, and use Netflix for movies and TV.)

In addition, when I enter each bill into my system, I examine it to see
if there's a way to reduce it. Are there any services on my phone bill I
can remove? Am I paying too much for long distance? Is my insurance
coverage appropriate for my situation?

Currently, since we're spending far more than we should (in our opinion)
we're trying to reduce our monthly expenditures by 10% each month. At
some point we'll be so efficient that that's no longer easy, but
currently there's plenty of fat to trim.

We're doing it that way (aiming for 10% monthly reductions rather than
cutting everything at once) to soften the blow -- to make the transition
to more efficient living easier.

Now, on to the mechanics of it. I use
[iBank](http://www.iggsoftware.com/ibank/index.php) to track my finances
because I prefer Mac OS X for my everyday computers, and [Quicken for
the
Mac](http://quicken.intuit.com/personal-finance-software/mac-personal-financial-software.jsp)
is not very good. If you're on a Windows computer,
[Quicken](http://quicken.intuit.com/quicken-personal-finance-software-products-services.jsp)
is actually a very good choice for managing your finances.

I try to make all my purchases via credit card. I don't keep most of my
receipts, and so I don't track cash purchases. (I record any money I
withdraw from an ATM as "Misc. Expenditures.")

iBank is compatible with Quicken direct download, so I can press one
button in iBank and immediately download all new transactions from my
bank, Wells Fargo, as well as my credit cards. I won't use any credit
card that doesn't support this.

This way all my transactions are automatically entered into iBank and
categorized, and I can quickly see exactly where my money is going.

I currently pay many bills by mailing in checks, but I'm considering
switching to electronic payments for most of them. This would save on
postage, but I'm concerned about not recording transactions. Before I
started working towards financial competence, I rarely balanced my
checkbook or recorded transactions in anything, and I want to be sure
any electronic payment method will keep me tracking these expenses. I
welcome any comments you have, Dear Reader, about how you handle this
kind of tracking.

