Title: Rapp Saloon Poetry Reading Review
Date: 2002-01-05 14:58
Author: schof
Category: Poetry
Slug: 172

Went to a reading at Rapp Saloon in Santa Monica last night. It's just
around the corner from Tanner's, where I'll be reading tonight, but it's
surprisingly hard to find. It's one room in a youth hostel, and the
front door to the room is locked -- you have to avoid the obvious white
door and go through the hostel's main entrance -- or stand there looking
through the white doorway like an idiot while rattling the locked door
handle, as I did. Rapp Saloon is hosted by Pete Justus and Gary Justice
(no relation). Pete apparently does most of the bookings, while Gary
acts as MC. It was a pretty solid night of poetry. After spending three
hours with Barbara yesterday working on my pieces, and one hour working
on just one of her pieces, I felt a strong urge to edit other people's
poetry. There were a lot of poems last night that were good, but could
have been great with a little cutting.

I did notice one odd thing -- the male-female ratio in that room was way
off. There were three, maybe four women there compared to around 20 men.
That's very different from the normal ratio at poetry readings, and I'm
not sure why. It lent the room somewhat of a testosterone-tinged
atmosphere -- not obnoxious, but definitely detectable. Another strange
thing about the room is that no obscenity is allowed -- you're not
supposed to cuss. I find that very strange for a poetry reading. The
reasoning is apparently that there are many young people in the hostel
who shouldn't be exposed to foul language. I find that even stranger --
in my experience, most of the people in a hostel are over 18, and
already have a fair command of scatological language.

I read "Coffee Is For Closers," "I Write," "The God Man Says," and
"Guanajuato." "Coffee Is For Closers" went over pretty well, and "I
Write" got a great reaction. The other two pieces didn't seem to reach
people.

Added a search engine to the website today. If you want to find out
who's been mentioned in one of my poems or in this blog, the search
engine can tell you. The index is only updated once a week, so it won't
find the most recent stuff, but it's still a great resource, and it's
free.

I'll be spending the rest of my day working on my set for tonight, so no
more website updates. Tomorrow I'll try to add the poems I read last
night and the poems I will read tonight.

<div class="blogger-post-footer">

<img alt width="1" height="1"></img>

</div>
