Title: Valley Contemporary Poets
Date: 2002-02-22 02:26
Author: schof
Category: Poetry
Slug: 197

Went to the Valley Contemporary Poets reading at the Cobalt Café Tuesday
night. The Cobalt, hosted by Rick Lupert, was my "home reading" when I
first started out in poetry. I haven't been back in years, so it was
tremendously exciting to be there. I had a great time -- I came close to
laughing so hard I puked. Any time you've got Brendan Constantine (one
director of the VCP) and Rick Lupert in the same room you're guaranteed
a lot of laughter. Elizabeth Iannaci (a fine poet who's another director
of the VCP) doesn't seem to be all that funny by herself, but she has a
great sense of humor, and I had a fabulous time just watching her laugh.
(Her occasional spit-take didn't hurt either.)

Although the night went reaaaaaaly long (9 PM to 12:15 AM) there was a
lot of good poetry. The feature, selected by the VCP, was Larry Jaffe,
who did a classy job despite being heckled by a clearly impaired
gentleman. (Who the Cobalt staff 86'd.) Leslie Neal was there and did
fine as usual. Brendan Constantine did a fantastic reading of some other
poets work, but sadly, none of his own. Elizabeth proved that she's a
great performer and writer.

I did "Tacos México," "Solid, Heavy, and Red," "Walking Down Winston,"
and "Tumbling and Turning." (I've got to get "Tumbling..." on the web
soon.) "Walking..." got a great reaction, the others not so great. I'm
afraid I fell into my old trap when I try to project of shouting instead
of projecting. Still, had a great time. Looking forward to more VCP
productions.

<div class="blogger-post-footer">

![](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/tracker/3260830-9985449?l=schoword.blogspot.com)

</div>
