Title: A Performance Poetry Manifesto
Date: 2001-12-30 15:05
Author: schof
Category: Poetry
Slug: a-performance-poetry-manifesto

1\. There are no great performances without great audiences. A great
performance is a collaboration between the speaker and the listener.
Performers should view the attention, silence, and appreciation of the
audience as valuable gifts that should not be squandered.

2\. Only perform works that you like. It doesn't have to be finished; it
doesn't have to be perfect; you don't have to love it -- but at least
like it. Make sure there's something about it you're proud of before you
share it with us. If you think it's boring, why should we think any
different?

3\. Don't be afraid to fail. A good reading is a place where it's safe to
fail once in a while. If we don't fail sometimes, we aren't being daring
enough.

4\. Know your tools. As a poet, your tools are your words, your voice,
and your microphone. You should know your words well enough that it
doesn't sound like you're reading someone else's scribbled handwriting.
Rehearse. This is a performance. Pay attention to how you sound,
especially if you're using a microphone.

5\. Reach the audience. If you're sweating, you're doing good. If the
audience is sweating, you're doing great. If your work does not reach
the audience, never blame them. Instead, change your material or your
approach. While we all write to please ourselves, we must also consider
how other people will perceive our work. If we truly wrote just for
ourselves, we would simply put our work in a drawer when it was done.
There is no shame in sincere applause, and popularity does not
necessarily imply mediocrity.

This manifesto should not be thought of as a list of rules, but a
starting point for a discussion among poets and those who love poetry.
Please send any comments to coyotehighway.com

