Title: Everything I Want to Do Is Illegal by Joel Salatin
Date: 2010-05-18 00:00
Author: schof
Category: Book Reviews, Resilient Communities, Sustainable Farming
Tags: Farming, permaculture, polyface, salatin, sustainable farming
Slug: everything-i-want-to-do-is-illegal-by-joel-salatin

I've long been interested in the local food movement, slow food, and
sustainable agriculture. I was probably started down this road by
Michael Pollan's ["In Defense of Food: An Eater's
Manifesto"](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0143114964?ie=UTF8&tag=schoforg-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0143114964)
and ["The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four
Meals"](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0143038583?ie=UTF8&tag=schoforg-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0143038583)
(both highly, highly recommended). I've just finished ["Everything I
Want To Do Is Illegal: War Stories From the Local Food
Front"](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0963810952?ie=UTF8&tag=schoforg-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0963810952)
by Joel Salatin, and I have mixed feelings about it.

First, the good. Salatin has been farming a small, family farm for
decades, learning and espousing an "organic" (one of his rants is about
the limitations on the use of that word), Earth-friendly, holistic
approach to farming. He has many things to teach about that, and his
insights there, and into the many senseless restrictions on small
farmers, are invaluable.

Still, Mr. Salatin is clearly a crank (in many senses of that word,
including simply being cranky) and he doesn't limit himself to
farm-related topics. (Fair warning: while Salatin and I both pick parts
of liberal and conservative philosophies to believe in, we seem to take
different points from both, and that may have informed this review.)
Salatin falls down when he talks about immigration, race relations, and
international affairs, and displays just as much ignorance of the world
at large as he displays encyclopedic knowledge of farming.

Perhaps the most jaw-dropping example of this is when Salatin compares
aborting a calf in the third trimester with aborting a human baby, and
seems shocked that others don't see the parallel. "Amazingly, the people
who are so concerned about abortions in the third trimester of a bovine
pregnancy tend to support that action in humans. Isn't that incredible."
I hesitate to point this out, because, you know, nobody should have
to -- but women are not cattle.

Salatin uses Biblical justifications for a number of his points. These
justifications may be persuasive to his coreligionists, but are not so
to people who don't share Salatin's faith. Salatin seems a writer
desperately in need of an editor. His writing is largely competent,
though alternatingly wooden and florid. But the book would have been a
thousand times better if it were half as long. The many valid points
Salatin has are buried in off-topic, poorly-framed arguments about
things Salatin seems to know little about. Salatin has written a number
of books, and I'll probably read one or two more, because he does have
amazing insights about sustainable farming, and the ways a small farmer
can operate in a rigid, bureaucratic environment designed to cater to
factory farms. I'm hoping his other books have more of that, and fewer
cranky rants.

