Title: John Buys a Six-Pack
Date: 2005-08-15 10:31
Author: schof
Category: Business, Management, Troubleshooting
Slug: john-buys-a-six-pack

This is an e-mail I sent to a few people after leaving my last job to go
to [Dakim](http://www.dakim.com). The events described happened on my
last day of work after giving two-weeks notice.

The day started weird and went downhill from there. I got an e-mail from
the owner of the company with a forwarded message, an automatic e-mail
from Tech Depot that they had charged \$1300 to our Office Depot card
and shipped a computer and monitor to Jim Bob Appliance Store in
Montgomery, Texas. The owner asked if the transaction was legit.

Bear in mind, the only Office Depot card in the company was in my wallet
at that moment. I replied that I certainly hadn't ordered it, and nobody
should be ordering computer equipment without my knowledge. The other
department head who sometimes orders hardware (through us) replied,
saying it wasn't him. I called Tech Depot and cancelled the order,
telling them it was fraudulent. I called Office Depot and cancelled the
credit card. (We have poor controls on credit cards, and just a few
months ago someone rang up thousands on our Amex at a Hilton and a
Hooters in Pasadena, necessitating changing everyone's cards.) I carry
the only Office Depot card, so canceling would only bother me. You want
to move quickly on these things, before the bad guy has a chance to
order more things.

Then, with an excess of zeal, I called the Montgomery County Sheriff's
department. (With the full enthusiasm of Josh, the other guy in the
department. Showing that even two smart people working together can do
really dumb-ass things.) I talked to a deputy, who said I would have to
file a report with the county Sheriff where I live (the deputy
apparently being unaware of the LAPD) and then the paperwork would make
its way to them to start a case. But he said "That address is in my
patrol area. Ahm gunna drive by there and git registrations of any
vehicles, give the detectives a head start." We started to picture the
deputy in our minds. "Ahm gunna shoot me a perp."

Then Julie, from our accounting department, who had been CC'd on all the
e-mails, ran into my office. "Did you cancel the card?"

Uh huh. Uh oh.

So here's the story, as I made it out from Julie. A client is on a photo
shoot out in Texas. They need to order some things from Office Depot.
The owner gave them our Office Depot credit-card number, and told them
to buy whatever they needed and we would bill them for it. Julie, having
received the bill from Office Depot, forwarded it to the owner to let
him know what was going on. The owner, having forgotten what was going
on, forwarded that e-mail to me with the question that got my
overzealous ass moving. Julie kept repeating, "We did the same thing
with the fax machine" -- like we were stupid for not realizing by this
point these transactions were going on. Well, we didn't know about the
fax machine getting sent to Texas because nobody SENT US AN E-MAIL
ASKING US TO INVESTIGATE THE FUCKING FAX MACHINE.

They shoot people in Texas for fraud, don't they? At least we never
called the LAPD.

Leaving aside the obvious holes in this story -- What's up with the
owner? The photographer didn't have a credit card? -- there's a broader
point I want to make. WE GAVE OUR CLIENT OUR CREDIT CARD NUMBER. Sorry.
Couldn't really say that without shouting. What the fuck? What the
fucking fuck?

So, having possibly gotten one of our big clients shot or pulled over by
an eager deputy, I continued with my last day.

I don't think I bought enough beer.

