Title: Just got back from open mike at Psychobabble Cafe ...
Date: 2002-02-04 01:07
Author: schof
Category: Poetry
Slug: just-got-back-from-open-mike-at-psychobabble-cafe

Just got back from open mike at Psychobabble Cafe on Vermont. They've
got a new host (at least, new since the last time I was there) and it's
a damn good night of poetry. The highlight was the feature, [Gina
Loring](http://ginaloring.com/ginaloring/), who I've seen several times
at the Green reading at Tanner's in Culver City. She did a mix of spoken
word and music, backing herself on guitar for two pieces. I've been
impressed with her every time I've heard her, and getting a chance to
hear more than one of her pieces at a time was a treat -- she really did
a fine job. The only negative thing I have to say about the reading was
the attrition -- poets reading towards the end of the night were pretty
much reading to an empty house, while it was packed at the beginning of
the night.

I did "I Write" and "[Walking Down
Winston](http://schof.org/2001/12/20/walking-down-winston/ "Walking Down Winston"),"
which got a pretty good reception considering how many people were left.
I was happy with my performance.

Before the reading I had dinner at a diner down the block and got some
good edits done on "[The Little
Bite](http://schof.org/2002/01/15/the-little-bite/ "The Little Bite")"
that I hope make it stronger -- I deleted a paragraph that slowing down
the story, and added one in its place that hopefully makes it track a
little better. The updates aren't on the web yet -- will be soon.

