Title: Letter from my Denmark Trip â€” June 28, 2005
Date: 2005-10-15 15:58
Author: schof
Category: Family
Slug: letter-from-my-denmark-trip-june-28-2005

The Internet is everywhere.

Perhaps I already knew this -- everybody knows this -- but it was
brought home to me tonight in a little village called Pandrup, in the
North of Denmark. The village is lovely, and surrounded by green fields
and windmills. (Some of the old-fashioned Cervantes kind, but mostly of
the new electricity-generating kind.) But Pandrup is small -- I drove
through it in less than five minutes.

I spent five hours with my mother and Grethe, my mother's sister, having
dinner with Hene, Lene, Byorn, and Annaruth. Everyone in the room was
related to me in some way, but it's far too complicated to go into, and
I'm not sure I've got it right. Byorn and Annaruth own a pig farm, Lene
is studying to be a nurse, and I geek for a living. Everyone else there
was retired. I was the youngest in the room, at 32, with Lene being the
next youngest at 52. Hene is in her 70's, and my mother is only a
whisker away from 70. And, as the evening came to an end, a new ritual
came into play -- the e-mail address exchange. (For the record, it
wasn't initiated by me.) With the exception of Grethe, everyone there
had an e-mail address.

Going back a moment -- yes, I did say I spent five hours having dinner.
It's the Danish way. It's easier to get out of Fort Knox WITH gold than
it is to get out of a Danish house WITHOUT food. We called Hene when we
arrived in Pandrup yesterday, just to let her know we made it safely.
She invited us to "coffee" -- code for 15 different types of pastry. We
tried to back out, but she pulled the trump card -- you have to come,
the food is already on the table.

The next morning we were roped into breakfast via the same route, and
then when we managed to escape before lunch to do some exploring we
couldn't make it out the door without a picnic basket. (Delicious
gragadella, a kind of squashed meatball that's fried, and potato salad
from new local potatoes.) So we're back for dinner at five, and yes, we
ate until 10:30 at night. Here were the courses, numbered for your
convenience:

0\) Aperitif: small glasses of orange juice for everyone.

1\) The pickled herring course. Eating dinner at a Danish house is kind
of like going to the doctor when it's time for a prostate exam. You know
there's going to be a finger up your butt, it will be unpleasant, but it
will end and you will get over it. The herring open-faced sandwich: Take
the kind of really dense rye-bread you can only get in Denmark. Put some
butter on it, or not. Your choice. Put a slab of pickled raw herring on
it, along with the pickled onions they come with. Cover with some kind
of strongly flavored egg salad type dressing. Use a lot. Eat with a
knife and fork, and wash down with beer, schnapps, or the beverage of
your choice. Try to smile. It's not as bad as I make it sound (the
herring has a firm but tender texture) but it isn't good. Just try
getting out of it -- Danes delight in inflicting pickled herring on
their foreign guests.

2\) The fish course -- fried fish filet on buttered (or not) rye-bread.
Make an open-faced sandwich and eat with knife and fork.

3\) The third fish course. Smoked salmon on white bread with white
asparagus stalks on top. Denmark is composed of islands, and a peninsula
sticking out of Germany. It's water on almost every side. Danes are
fishers and sea folk. Lots of fresh fish.

4\) The meat course -- some kind of beef cooked and covered in cream, and
another dish of fragadella.

5\) The cheese course -- crackers, and about 10 different kinds of
incredibly great Danish cheese.

6\) Coffee and chocolate candies.

If it seems like this letter is entirely about food, that's because this
is my third day in Denmark, and other than drive from one end of the
country to the other in six hours, all I've done is eat, talk about
eating, or try to get out of eating.

This message is somewhat tongue-in-cheek -- most of the food has been
incredible (especially the fragadella and cheese) and I must say a word
about the ingredients -- farm town living is nice. The eggs we had for
breakfast come from the farm down the street -- the organic milk comes
fresh from the cows at a different farm. Everything (except the herring)
has been incredibly delicious and fresh.

The sun set just as we were leaving Hene's place tonight -- at 10:30
p.m. Life close to the Arctic Circle. And we're not even that close. Not
like Northern Finland, where you apparently get 50 consecutive days
where the sun doesn't rise in winter. In summer here the sun rises at 5,
goes down around 10:30, and never gets really dark -- it's 11:30 now,
and it's JUST NOW dark enough that I can't read from the light outside.

My Mom, Aunt, and myself are going exploring tomorrow -- and although it
took a lot of talk, we're NOT getting breakfast at Hene's first. At
least, that's the plan now. I wouldn't be surprised if Henny calls us
tomorrow morning with a story that her fridge broke and we need to come
over and help eat the food. Or she slipped and set the table or
something.

