Title: May Day 2010 Protest March
Date: 2012-08-06 21:12
Author: schof
Category: Photography
Slug: may-day-2010-protest-march

I emerged from the subway stop at Pershing Square just as the march was
getting started. It had taken me longer to get there than I planned, and
I exited from the depths to bright sunlight and bright white shirts and
an overwhelming number of American flags.  The organizers had requested
that particpants wear white shirts, and everyone figured out on their
own that it's a good idea to wave American flags if you were born in
some other country and you're bitching about this one. If the ratio of
American flags to participants was greater than 1 to 1, it's because of
past criticisms of similar marches as anti-American.

The first moments I popped out on Broadway were electric. I'd never been
in an atmosphere like it before. There were more people than I'd ever
seen in one place before, linking arms, shouting, angry at the
injustices they saw and proud to be marching in protest.  I got
goosebumps from the experience, feeling the electricity flowing from the
protestors; the crowd was energized, self-confident, angry, and
empowered, and I was deeply moved by the experience.  It was the
friendliest large crowd I've ever been in. People readily tried to move
out the way to let others pass, and I found a smile was almost always
returned with no hesitation. People seemed genuinely thankful that I was
there photographing, and behaved politely and compassionately to me and
everyone around them.

Although the march was overwhelming hispanic, it was not exclusively
so -- there were people of every race and ethnicity there (our
immigration policies dismay people of every nationality) and I never
once felt unwelcome or unwanted there.  There were a large number of
children there -- people had seemed to bring the whole family -- and,
while the younger ones were a little puzzled about what it was all
about, it was clear that protesting was a family affair.

The march ended near Los Angeles City Hall, where there was a platform
set up, and musicians performed protest songs for the crowd.  Towards
the stage we were packed about as tightly as it's possible to be packed,
and the crowd stayed polite and helpful. This was an astonishing
experience for me, largely because my other experiences with being
packed that closely were punk rock concerts. Not getting elbowed in the
head kept puzzling me, until I remembered where I was.

Once the band finished the speeches began, and what had been an
energized group of protestors became a bored, hot, and crowded group of
people just starting to realize that their feet hurt and they had to go
to the bathroom.  Our illustrious mayor, Antonio Villaraigosa, spoke,
giving roughly identical speaches in English and Spanish. His Spanish is
only somewhat better than mine -- my accent is better at times -- and
our mayor is equally uninspiring in both languages. People almost
immediately began to drift away.

I heard varying estimates for the size of the crowd, from 50,000 up to
250,000, and I have no way of knowing how many people were there. But
you could look down Broadway for blocks and blocks and see nothing but
people, crowded in, and red and white flags, and white shirts off into
the distance.  It's obviously impossible to photograph 100,000 people
from ground level, but I was very pleased with some of the portraits I
was able to take at the march. I think they give the flavor of who was
there and what it was like to be there much more than a shot of a
hundred thousand dots taken from a helicopter.

 

[gallery link="file" orderby="post\_date"]

