Title: Poetry Update
Date: 2002-04-14 11:27
Author: schof
Category: Poetry
Slug: poetry-update

I haven't done a blog update in ages. I think there's an inverse
relationship between how much I'm working and how often I post on my
blog. When I first started this thing, business was slow. I mean really
slow. I mean sending applications to Starbucks slow. For the last few
months, things have been crazy crazy busy, and it's been a lot harder to
find the time and energy to keep this thing going. But I think that's
enough excuses for one blog entry. This one is going to cover a lot of
territory. It'll be more of a highlight reel than anything else.

This has been a good weekend for poetry. Friday night I caught the last
two thirds of the reading at Rapp Saloon. I missed most of the open
readers. Maitreyana did a song fragment she had written that I really
liked. I did "Walking Down Winston" to an excellent reaction. The
feature, Jaha Zainabu, was really powerful, both as a performer and as a
writer. I can't speak highly enough about her -- it was an inspiring
performance.

Saturday afternoon I hung out with a friend, Jen B., and had a number of
great discussions about poetry in general and my poetry specifically.
That was actually a lot of fun -- Jen had some great insights.

Saturday night was a really solid reading at Mia. The open reading was
excellent -- Wayman Barnes read a new piece in the first person about a
college kid that was howlingly funny. Charlotte O'Brien read a few damn
fine pieces, including one of my favorites, Pele. (Referring to the
goddess of volcanoes, not the soccer star.) Michelle Daugherty sang one
of her songs (excellent) and did a rousing anti-feminist piece she had
written in five minutes ten minutes before she went up. (How the hell
does she do that?) Adam Lowis did a powerful piece about being homeless.
Frankie Drayus was the feature, and did a damn fine set, including some
pieces I had never heard that I really liked. (I bought her CD and
discovered that her name is actually C. Frances Drayus. She won't say
what the C stands for.) After the reading we went over to Norm's for a
late night session of carbon-dioxide college. It was pretty amazing --
between the 10 or so people at the table, we had experts on just about
every subject -- the conversation ranged from different martial arts
styles to different classical categories of poetry to the origin of the
Trinity in Christian doctrine -- and that was just the conversations I
took part in.

Looking back a few weeks, my feature at the Rapp Saloon went really
well. There was a decent-sized group of people -- about 20 or 25 -- and
I got a great reaction. Three or four people individually described it
as inspiring -- which I don't really see, but I'll take the compliment
anyway. The only negative comment I got was from Bowerbird, who felt
that I crammed too much stuff into the reading -- and I think he's
right. I used my entire 25 minutes, and it's always a good idea to leave
people begging for more. Still, I felt really good about the
performance. I got closer to the kind of reading I'm trying for than
I've ever gotten before -- conversational, without the performance
overwhelming the poetry -- but with enough performance elements to keep
the audience's attention.

A week or so after my feature at Rapp, I checked out a music open mike
at Taix on Sunset in Echo Park. I was there with a few friends (Corbin
E., John C. and Marie L.). It was an intimidating place -- everyone was
there to hear music, not poetry (we were the only poets) and we
discovered that you have to have a fairly loud, energetic presence or
they simply won't pay attention. If you didn't grab the audience there,
they would start shouting between tables and ordering drinks over your
poetry. I did "Walking Down Winston," which got a great reaction --
total silence while I was reading, and then loud applause afterwards. I
had Corbin keep an eye on two women who had talked through most of the
previous musicians -- and when he said that they shut up for me, that
was the best applause of all.

Leslie Neal has agreed a while ago to put together a chapbook for me --
and this week she said she has time to do it, and needs a manuscript.
I've been working on the damn thing for months, but the sudden
appearance of a deadline has kicked me into high gear. (I'm playing
hooky from working on it right now.) Excited about finally getting
something solid out there.

No hyperlinks in this blog version -- no time like the present, but no
time at the present. I'll add them later.

