Title: Taking Care of Essential Responsibilities
Date: 2012-12-30 11:00
Author: schof
Category: Financial Competence
Slug: taking-care-of-essential-responsibilities

There are two essential responsibilities you'll have to take care of on
your road to [Financial
Competence](http://schof.org/2012/12/29/a-financial-roadmap/ "A Roadmap to Financial Competence").
One will apply to everyone; the other may not depending on your
situation.

The first essential responsibility is to have an **Emergency Fund** -- a
cash cushion to handle emergencies. These emergencies include house and
car repair, unplanned medical expenses, or job loss. The key
characteristic here is that these are **unplanned** expenses. You should
be saving separately for planned expenses such as home remodeling, car
purchases, or elective medical procedures.

Having this kind of emergency fund will keep you from going into debt
when emergencies happen -- and debt is the enemy of financial security.
(Debt can be a useful tool when you're fully financially competent, but
until then should be treated like Kryptonite.)

The guideline for this emergency fund is that it should be 3 to 6 months
of your living expenses. We're not there yet in the Schofield household.
We've currently got about 1 month of expenses saved up. I expect the
percentage of our emergency fund that we have saved up to increase
quickly -- both because of increased savings and because our decreased
living expenses will decrease the target.

The emergency fund should be kept somewhere it's safe, easily accessible
(no penalties for withdrawal) and earns the most interest it can while
being safe and accessible. The best choice would be FDIC-insured
savings, but a money-market account such as [Vanguard's Prime Money
Market
Fund](https://personal.vanguard.com/us/funds/snapshot?FundId=0030&FundIntExt=INT)
would also qualify.

Currently our funds are in a Wells Fargo savings account earning 0.01%.
(Yes, the decimal point there is in the right place. Sadly.). The
Vanguard money market account is returning 0.03% right now, so it's not
much better. I've found an online bank
([Ally](http://www.ally.com/bank/online-savings-account/?INTCMPID=SavingsMenu_OSA_Nav#tabs=rates))
currently paying 0.95%, and we're going to open up an account there.
I've found that the best resource for finding a good savings account or
money market account is
[bankrate.com](http://www.bankrate.com/checking.aspx).

The next essential responsibility is insurance, and there's several
kinds you'll need.

In all of them, you'll pick as high a deductible as seems reasonable,
because that does wonders to reduce the fee you'll pay for it. I'm going
to do more research on exactly what levels of insurance you should get
in the future.

**Medical Insurance**: If you can, get it through your job. Get as high
a deductible as you can.

**Auto Insurance:** If you purchased a used car at a good price, (which
is what you should have done) then get a level of liability insurance
appropriate to your net worth and that covers the legal minimum required
by your state. If you have a car with a higher value (which I do, but
wish I didn't) then think about comprehensive and collision coverage
(again, with a high deductible) and if you have a car loan (God forbid!)
then you'll have whatever is required by your lender.

**Home Insurance**: If you own your own home, you should have
homeowner's insurance. I don't, so I don't.

**Renter's Insurance**: Homeowner's insurance covers the home, not the
contents. Renter's insurance fills that gap. If you have a high enough
emergency fund, you might omit renter's insurance.

**Life Insurance**: If you have dependents, and you don't have enough
investments to support them, you need life insurance. I have a daughter
and plans for another, and a wife who's a full-time student, and our
savings aren't anywhere near enough to support them. I need life
insurance. I'll write more about this in the future as well.

 

