Title: Xavier Cross Benefit, March 2010
Date: 2012-08-06 21:08
Author: schof
Category: Photography
Slug: xavier-cross-benefit-march-2010

This is my third real exploration of both my renewed interest in
photography and my new camera, my Panasonic Lummix GF1.  I had a great
time, and it was very gracious of
[Yoko](http://www.facebook.com/people/Yoko-Morimoto/1251920962) to
invite me to [the
benefit](http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=318854931659) and show me
around.

Photographically speaking there were a few big lessons. First, hold the
damn camera steady! I ruined a number of shots this way. I think part of
it is my nervousness about shooting people in the crowd. I felt
perfectly comfortable shooting the performers, but felt very shy about
shooting random people attending. (Despite the fact that nobody seemed
to mind, and a number of people actively vamped for the camera. Of
course, that's a completely separate problem, as I'm trying to get
slice-of-life photos, not posed shots.)

The second lesson was bump up my ISO. I shot at ISO 800, and didn't go
higher because I was concerned about graininess. I'll definitely have to
experiment with higher-ISO shots to see if that gets me the higher
shutter-speed I need without getting too grainy. Here's the first real
example of the problem that I decided to keep:  This one kills me. It's
the beautiful and talented [Sunny Soriano](http://sunnysoriano.com/) and
her partner. (Contact me if you have the correct information on her
acrobatics partner.) This is exactly the type of photo I'm trying to
take -- capturing something like the peak of action. And it's blurry as
hell, not because of the extreme speed of the performers, but because I
had too slow a shutter speed, and too shaky a hand.

There were about five artists painting live, doing works that were going
to be raffled off at the benefit. (I didn't win anything.)   This is
Ceci Castelblanco:  I love this shot of Ceci. [Something about dark,
painterly tones really gets
me](http://schof.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/P1000640.jpg). I didn't
get any shots of the fire performers that I really loved, but I like how
the pose for one aerialist worked out. [He's hanging by a strap around
the back of his
head.](http://schof.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/P1000789.jpg) All in
all it was a blast, and I'm really glad I went. I hope there's an
equally interesting photography adventure this coming weekend!

[gallery link="file" orderby="post\_date"]

